Narrator: Antarctica, an inhospitable wasteland, but even here, on the Earth's frozen bottom, we find life.

Cue Private's egg revealed under the snow, which rolls over the snow.

Narrator: And not just any life: penguins. Joyous, frolicking, waddling, cute and cuddly life. Look at them, tumbling onto their chubby bum bums. Who could take these frisky snow-clowns...

As the older penguins almost fall on baby Skipper, Rico, and Kowalski, they move out of the way.

Skipper: Seriously? Does anyone even know where we're marching to?
Penguin #1: Who cares?
Penguin #2: I question nothing.
Penguin #3: Me, too.
Penguin #4: Me, too.
Skipper: Well, fine. We'll just fly to the front of the line and see for ourselves. Kowalski, Rico, engage aerial surveillance.

They flap their wings but cannot fly.

Kowalski: Skipper, we appear to be flightless.
Skipper: [looks at his wings] Oh, well, what's the point of these?

Rico seems to have an idea. He hits Skipper's wing in some sort of high five.

Skipper: Whoa, I like it! Hey, this could be our thing! What're we going to call it? Let's call it the, uh... high one.

The egg rolls under the trio, flipping them over.

Skipper: Hey! Anybody see that? That's an egg! Is someone gonna go get it?
Penguin #5: We can't do that.
Skipper: Why not?
Penguin #6: Well, it's a dangerous world out there, and we're just penguins. You know, nothing but cute and cuddly.
Penguin #7: Yeah. Why do you think there are always documentary crews filming us?

Zoom out a bit to see a cameraman and sound man recording the penguin line.

Penguin #8: Well, sorry, kid. You know, we lose a few eggs every year. It's just nature.
Skipper: Oh, right, nature. I guess that makes sense, but... something... something deep down in my gut tells me that it makes no sense at all. You know what? I reject nature!

The other adult penguins gasp in disbelief.

Skipper: Who's with me?!

Skipper cries out and starts sliding towards the egg. Rico and Kowalski look at Skipper in confusion.

Rico: Ha-ha!
Kowalski: The old ship. No one's ever returned from there alive.
Skipper: Relax, Kowalski. There's a bird down there now. Look, he's fine. [notices some leopard seals] Leopard seals... nature's snakes.
Kowalski: Aren't snakes nature's snakes?
Skipper: How should I know? I live on the flipping frozen tundra. [the leopard seals go to the egg] They're going for the egg! Give me a way down there, ASAP!
Kowalski: All one would have to do is collect 300 feet of kelp, dry it in the...
Narrator: Tiny and helpless, the baby penguins are frozen with fear. They know if they fall from this cliff, they will surely die. [to Gunter] Gunter, give them a shove.
Kowalski: ...harnessing the jellyfish we've trained to obey simple voice commands.
Skipper: Now, that's more like it! That-a-boy, Rico! Don't let him have it! Okay. I guess that works.
Kowalski: Get to high ground!
Skipper: Boo-yah!
Kowalski: Success!
Kowalski: I'd recommend firing it now.
Skipper: Nope, hold on.
Kowalski: Uh, we really should fire it.
Skipper: Not till we see the white of its eyes.
Kowalski: They're mostly pupil. Very little white. Almost none!
Skipper: They got to have a little bit of white, right?
Kowalski: None whatsoever.
Skipper: What if they look really far to the left? Fire in the hole!
Skipper: Kowalski, analysis?
Kowalski: We are really... awesome at this!
Skipper: Boys, we did it! Mission accomplished! Hey, we could do our thing! High one!

They all high five, until Skipper accidentally hits the egg they just saved.

Skipper: Oops. My bad.

The penguins all look in awe as the egg is about to hatch.

Skipper: Look, it's... it's the miracle of birth.
Kowalski: A moment of extraordinary beauty.

Suddenly, Private's egg explodes open, splashing the three penguins in goop, much to their disgust.

Skipper: Daaagh!! That is disgusting! I think I have amniotic sac in my mouth!

Much to the surprise of the three penguins, the newly hatched Private gets up, but look at him lovingly.

Private: Hello. Are you my family?

The three penguins turn, knowing they're far away from land, and nod to each other before turning back to face Private.

Kowalski: You don't have a family, and we're all going to die. Sorry.
Private: Wh-Wha...?

Skipper elbows Kowalski.

Kowalski: What? I thought that was what we were all nodding about.
Skipper: [hits Kowalski] No one's gonna die! [to Private] Y'know what you got, kid? You've got us. We've got each other. And if that ain't a family, I don't know what is.

He salutes Private, who salutes back.

Skipper: [tussles Private's head] So adorable.

He turns away from Private, looking at the sun.

Skipper: Kowalski, what's our trajectory?
Kowalski: Ninety-five percent certain we're still doomed.
Skipper: And the, uh... other five percent?
Kowalski: Adventure and glory like no penguins have ever seen before.
Skipper: I'll take that action.
Private: Where are going?
Skipper: The future, boys. The glorious future.

[The Glorious Future]

Marty: [singing] Da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da, circus! Da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da, Afro Circus!
Skipper: Ah, this song! I swear it's gonna make me lose my salmon!
Kowalski: Singing getting louder, Skipper!
Skipper: Well, move faster! And somebody get that wig off of Private?
[Private is seen dancing to "Afro-Circus" with a rainbow afro wig and Rico removes the wig of Private's head, much to the latter's dismay.]
Skipper: Kowalski, status report!
Kowalski: I'm really getting tired of this song!
Skipper: The best part of owning a circus is you can transport a cannon over state lines.

[Title card]

Skipper: Ten years ago on this very day, a tiny egg hatched, and our world got a little bit cuter. [Private giggles] So tonight, Private, we celebrate your birthday by infiltrating the United States gold depository at Fort Knox!
Kowalski: Splendid!
Private: What?
Skipper: There she is, boys. The object of our unholy desire. The butter on our biscuit. The royal flush.
Private: Skipper?
Skipper: Private, what's our rule about interrupting analogies?
Private: Sorry. Please continue.
Skipper: The moment's gone. Private ruined it.
Kowalski: Sir, we're approaching our target.
Private: But, Skipper, I really don't...
Skipper: Are you questioning my leadership, Private?
Private: No, sir.
Skipper: Too bad. 'Cause I respect a soldier with some moxie.
Private: Really? Then I really think we should...
Skipper: Whoa, whoa, whoa. Dial back the moxie, sass-mouth. Oh, look at you. Still so adorable. Fire in the hole!
Toy Clock: 8 o'clock. Night night time. Guards: Wha...? Skipper: Private, come on! Guard: Please enter pass code. Skipper: Kowalski, you're up. Guard: Please enter pass code. Kowalski: Rico, sonic incursion device. Skipper: Oh, come on, you're kidding right? Kowalski: Kentucky, Skipper. They do love their Flatt and Scruggs. Guard: Y'all come in now, y'hear? Have yourself a iced tea. Skipper: Private, if you could have anything you wanted in the whole wide world, what would it be? Private: Well, gee, Skipper. I think to be a meaningful and valued member of this team. Skipper: Oh, well, we got you something else. Camera zooms in to a vending machine in the break room. Kowalski and Rico both carry Private in front of Skipper.

Private: A vending machine? Skipper: Well, not just any vending machine, Private. The last remaining home in America's nanny states for those succulent and chemically-hazerdous bits of puffed heaven called... Private: [gasps] Cheesy Dibbles! Skipper: [gives Private a coin] Happy ding-dong birthday, ya little scamp! Private: Thank you.

Private pecks Skipper on the cheek, followed by Kowalski, finally giving one to Rico, only for the latter to hold Private for ten seconds before releasing him. Cue Skipper, Kowalski and Rico smiling at Private with satisfaction.

Skipper: You mess with the bull, you're gonna get the horns, Private. Now hit that machine and get your present.

Private tosses the coin into the machine and tries to reach in the slot to get the bag.

Skipper: We just broke in the most secure facility in North America. Do you know what that means? Kowalski: We're wanted criminals who will be on the lam for the rest of their lives, always feeling the hot breath of Johnny Law on our necks? Skipper: No. It means, as elite units go, we're the elitist of the elite. Top shelf in the bureau. The penultimates. Plus one.

As Private struggles to get the bag out of the vending machine he ends up getting pulled into the machine.

Skipper: Where'd Private go?

They walk over closer to the vending machine.

Kowalski: Oh, there he is.

The penguins notice that Private is stuck up in the machine.

Kowalski: D3. Skipper: Oh, Private. How much is he? Kowalski: He's three dollars and fifty cents, sir. Skipper: Well, that's outrageous. Even for Private.

Suddenly, an octopus tentacle comes out of the vending machine slot, grabs Rico and takes him into the machine.

Kowalski: Sir, the machine is alive! The octopus tentacle comes out of vending machine again and takes Kowalski.

Skipper: [angrily] Well, I don't think I like your attitude, vending machine. Or your prices! [in battle stance] Release them!

The tentacle comes back out and grabs Skipper in.

Skipper: Kowalski, analysis. Kowalski: All evidence indicates... [his stomach grumbles] Oooh, I ate too many Cheezy Dibbles.

Private coughs out an orange cloud of dust.

Skipper: We're behind enemy lines and incredibly thirsty. Rico, bust us out of this delicious prison.

Rico sticks out his tongue holding a paper clip and uses it to unlock the door.

Skipper: Nice work, Rico. You are a meaningful and valued member of this team.

As the penguins exit the cage, Private becomes upset. Then he looks at the paper clip Rico used, takes it and swallows it. He tries coughing it up, but no success.

Skipper: [o.s.] Private, quit lollygagging. And regular gagging. Private: Sorry. Skipper: It's dark and ominous. Two of my least favorite traits in a room. Private: Ooh, look, a button! Skipper: Huh? Private, don't!

Private pushes the button and the platform underneath them descends and they drop down to another room.

Skipper: Now what have I told you about- Private: [presses another button] Sorry, what?

A giant ray wheels to them and a laser pops out pointing at the penguins.

Kowalski: It looks like some sort of giant laser sent to kill us all, sir.

Skipper steps back from the laser's angle.

Private: Ooh, another one! Skipper, Kowalski, Rico: NO!

They stop Private from pushing the button. Suddenly, drops of water comes down on the panel and on the flippers. The penguins look up.

Dr. Octavius Brine: Naughty, naughty. Pretty birds belong in their cages.

He is seen walking on the catwalk, but the camera shows that he is walking upside down. He drops down and his limbs are tangled up. The penguins groan in disgust. The scientist gets himself in that tangled position and screws his head right. Penguins: Ew! Dr. Octavius Brine: Now, that's just hurtful. [untangles himself] And I was so happy to see you again, Skipper, [Skipper gasps] Kowalski, Rico, and sweet little Private. [flicks Private's beak] Boop! Skipper: Who are you? Dr. Octavius Brine: The humans know me as Dr. Octavius Brine. Renowned geneticist, cheese enthusiast, and frequent donor to NPR pledge drives. But you know me by a different much older name. A name perhaps you'd hoped you'd never hear again. A phantom! A shadow of a former life! I am

A purple octopus emerges from the costume of Dr. Brine.

Dave: Dave!

The penguins gave long surprised looks at Dave with the Dr. Brine hairpiece on his head.

Skipper: Kowalski? Kowalski: Sorry, sir. No clue. Dave: [takes off the hairpiece] Dave!!! Kowalski: Dave... Dave: Dave. Skipper: Dave? Dave: Dave. Private: Dave. Dave: Dave! Rico: [gibberish].

Dave gives a confused look. A cricket chirp is heard. The penguins look to see a cricket doing the chirp, who then stops.

Cricket: Sorry. [leaves then stops and turns] Wait, wait. Uh, I live this way. [leaves] Skipper: Go ahead, Dan, continue. Dave: You seriously don't remember me? Skipper: Dave! Dave! Right! Oh yeah, long time. Uh, how's the wife?

In response, Dave punches the wall above Skipper's head.

Dave: I've never been married! You may not remember me, but I could never forget you. [grabs a snow globe and shakes it] Let's shake up some old memories. New York City. The Central Park Zoo. Life was good. Roomy tank, great location, monkey-house views. And, of course... my adoring legion of fans. Girl: Cool. Dave: Dave! The octopus of a thousand tricks. Boy: Awesome! Dave: I was the total package. Girl: Wow. Man: Hey, kids! You got to see this. Get up here quick! Woman: Come on, kids. Come on... Dave: And then you arrived. Man: Oh, they're so adorable! Skipper: Just smile and wave, boys. Smile and wave. Dave: And took everything from me. Woman: They're so cute! Girl: They're so adorable. Woman: Have you ever seen anything cuter? Dave: Four adorable baby penguins. With you around, no one wanted an old octopus anymore. "Out you go, Dave." And so it went, over and over, at zoo after aquarium. Kid: Dad, look! Man: I can't see the penguins, man! Whoo yeah! Dave: Adorable penguins stole the show. While I was shunned. Forgotten. Unwanted. Alone. Private: That sounds awful. Dave: Oh, it was. I came to realize some creatures are born to get all the love. The rest of us get nothing! The only thing that has kept me going all these years is my burning thirst for revenge! And my precious souvenir snow globe collection.

Rico swallows the rest of Dave's snow globe collection.

Dave: Ah! What is wrong with you?! Skipper: Oh, Daryl, Daryl, Daryl, you can't blame us for what happened to you. Dave: Uh, can. That's how this whole revenge thing works. And with this, I finally have the power to destroy you. Private: Crikey! Dave: Nicolas, cage them. Skipper: I've got some bad news for you, Dennis. You messed with the wrong birds. Because we are an elite unit, the best of the best. Cream of the corn on a platinum cob. And we're gonna take your deadly green goop and sashay right out the exit hatch. Dave: And just how are you going to do that? Skipper: Deploy secret weapon. Dave: The cheese, it burns! Skipper: Roll out. Dave: After them! Skipper: All right, boys, it's just like Cuba. Taxi! How about some music? Something chase-y. Private: Here they come. Skipper: Let's move. Private: Stroke! Stroke! Stroke again! Stroke some more! Stroke! Stroke! Stroke! Stroke! Sorry! Stroke! Stroke! We got baddies, six o'clock. Skipper: Kowalski, battle formation. So you squeegees want to do the gondola mambo? Let's dance. Mother-of-pearl, that stings! I've lost visual. Kowalski, be my eyes. Kowalski: Uh, left. Right, right! Up! Duck. Skipper: I think I got 'em. Kowalski: They are down, sir. Skipper: Excelente. Private: Skipper! Kowalski: They're back up. And we are running out of canal. Skipper: Parker Posey! Go all-terrain. Italian Man: Will you marry me? Skipper: We've lost engine one! Kowalski: And two and three. Private: Four! Skipper: Switch to emergency power. Private: Aye, aye, Skipper. We've got melons! Dead ahead! Skipper: I can see. Rico, the glowy thing! Venetian blinded again! Kowalski: We've been boarded. Skipper: Initiate self-destruct sequence. Nice. Private: Whee! Skipper: Frankly, I'm surprised we had a self-destruct sequence. All right, boys, battle stance. Kowalski: We're in battle stance, sir. Skipper: Oh. Okay, good. Now we uh, spring our trap. Kowalski: I'm not sure they're the ones that are trapped, sir. Skipper: Kowalski, remember our little talk about true but unhelpful comments? Kowalski: Yes, sir. Skipper: Sometimes we just have to wing it. Kowalski: Wow. Sorry for underestimating the plan, Skipper. Skipper: It's okay, Kowalski. Just don't ever doubt me again. Now, what the heck is going on?! Classified: Remain calm, penguins. You are now under the protection of the North Wind. You're welcome. Corporal: Oh my gosh. You guys are so cute. You guys are just so, so cute! And cuddly. Skipper: Hey, get away! No more hugs! Corporal: It's like being licked by a basket full of puppy dogs. Classified: Corporal! Corporal! Chart a course back to North Wind headquarters. Eva, inform them that we're bringing in witnesses. Skipper: Private, Dibble me. We're not going anywhere with you. We don't even know who the heck you are. Classified: The North Wind is an elite undercover interspe... The North Wind is an elite under... An elite undercover interspecies... ...task... force, dedicated to help... helping... Dedicated to helping... Dedi... Dedicated to helping animals who can't help themselves. Like penguins. Skipper: Really? And you are? Classified: My name is classified. Skipper: Classified, eh? What is that, Dutch? Can't really hear the accent. Classified: Excuse me? Skipper: There's the accent. Classified: No, my name isn't Classified. My name is classified because I am the leader of this strike team. The seal is Short Fuse, weapons and explosives. The bear is Corporal, he's our muscle. And the owl is Eva, intelligence and analysis. Skipper: Well, Agent Classified, we happen to be an elite unit, too. Ship: Self-destruct sequence activated. Skipper: You know, you should really label these things. Ship: In three, two, one... Skipper: The name's Skipper. I run this outfit. Back there is Kowalski. He's the brains of our operation. Say something smart, Kowalski. Kowalski: Uh… Skipper: See? He's working on a whole 'nother level. And Rico, he's our demolition expert. He destroyed that chair for the sheer fun of it. No reason at all. And then there's Private. He's... he's sort of our, you know, secretary/mascot. Classified: Cute. Corporal: And cuddly. Oh, sorry. Classified: Well, let's see how well "cute and cuddly" handles this next bit. Skipper: Nice doggy door. Private: Wow. Look at this. Skipper: Well, well, well. Not a bad place you got here, Classified. Classified: Thank you. That's not my name. Announcer: Arrival at pad 17. Classified: All right, tiny penguins, the best way for the North Wind to protect helpless animals like yourselves is to bring Dr. Brine to justice. Now, you were inside his sub, so I need to know everything you know. Skipper: Yee-hoo! Kowalski: Ha-ha! Private: Whee! Penguins: Hey! Classified: Just tell me everything you know. Skipper: All right. Numero uno: Never trust a Dutchman in a tulip fight. Classified: Tulip fight... Skipper: Canada is secretly training an army of Sasquatch. Classified: Sasquatch… Skipper: Hot dogs are, in fact, only 17 percent actual dog. Classified: 17 percent… Classified: Not "everything" everything. Just... everything regarding your abduction by Dr. Octavius Brine. Skipper: Ah. Why didn't you say so? Classified: What? Skipper: My team has uncovered that Dr. Octavius Brine is actually an individual known as Derek. Kowalski: Dave. Skipper: As Dave the octopus. Short Fuse: An octopus? No. Dr. Brine is not an octopus. He is... Classified: An octopus. Precisely. That's exactly what our intel indicated. Release the sheep.

A sheep is kicked out of a North Wind barn. 